Compress in-memory slices with Zstd (#2268)
tenzir/vast: changelog/unreleased/features/2268--compress-table-slice.md

The `segment-store` store backend now compresses data before persisting it,
resulting in 5x space savings for newly archived data, and an up to X% memory
usage reduction. Depending on the speed of the disk this may improve the overall
speed of VAST as well; we measured a negligible less than 1% performance penalty

> using the fastest disks we have (5GB/s).

Author: Note that X = 10% on my local M1 Max MBP 16' for a 100 GB database; I left this running earlier today.

We should roll this PR out on the testbed to get some numbers such that we can put them in here. I also measured with `vast.import.batch-size: 65536` rather than the default `1024` because I forgot to revert to the defaults, but quick local tests show that the numbers are almost as good with the measly default batch size.

Author: > We should note that compression trades random-access performance.

That's not necessarily true. The compression is per column, and once you access it it actually stays decompressed in-memory in the record batch until the ref count drops to zero.

> In fact, if the archive is now smaller than the index, we should make dense indexes optional as well in the same release.

I disagree—that would be follow-up work. There's no reason to delay an improvement just because there's room for further improvement because of it. By that logic we would never be able to cut a release at all.

I also doubt that we can deduce from the relative size of store and dense indexes alone that the dense indexes are now irrelevant. While I agree that it is likely, we would need benchmarks confirming this before making that change. Please write a follow-up story if you want to investigate this further.

Author: Note that I've rewritten the changelog entry since we started this discussion to also show the overall reduction in space and to also mention the tuned defaults.

> VAST now compresses data before persisting it or sending it between processes,
> resulting in over 2x space savings for newly written data using the
> `segment-store` store backend with the default VAST configuration, and resulting
> in an up to 5x reduction of transferred data between `vast import` processes and
> the VAST server. This allowed us to increase the default partition size from
> 1'048'576 to 4'194'304 events, and the default number of events in a single
> batch from 1024 to 65'536, yielding a significant performance increase at the
> cost of a ~20% memory increase at peak load. We think this is a better default;
> if you require less memory usage, reduce the value of `vast.max-partition-size`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
VAST now achieves 2-5x space savings on IPC operations by enabling Zstd column
compression. When persisting data to the segment store, the default
configuration achieves over 2x space savings. When transferring data between
client and server processes, compression reduces the amount of transferred data
by up to 5x. This allowed us to increase the default partition size from
1'048'576 to 4'194'304 events, and the default number of events in a single
batch from 1,024 to 65'536. The superior performance increase comes at the
cost of a ~20% memory footprint increase at peak load. Use the option
`vast.max-partition-size` to tune this space-time tradeoff.
```
